



ACME                                                P. van Brouwershaven
Internet-Draft                                              M. Ounsworth
Intended status: Standards Track                                 Entrust
Expires: 4 March 2024                                   1 September 2023


         Auto-discovery mechanism for ACME client configuration
           draft-vanbrouwershaven-acme-auto-discovery-latest

Abstract

   A significant impediment to the widespread adoption of the Automated
   Certificate Management Environment (ACME) [RFC8555] is that ACME
   clients need to be pre-configured with the URL of the ACME server to
   be used.  This often leaves domain owners at the mercy of their
   hosting provider as to which Certification Authorities (CAs) can be
   used.  This specification provides a mechanism to bootstrap ACME
   client configuration from a domain's DNS CAA Resource Record
   [RFC8659], thus giving control of which CA(s) to use back to the
   domain owner.

   Specifically, this document specifies two new extensions to the DNS
   CAA Resource Record: the "discovery" and "priority" parameters.
   Additionally, it registers the URI "/.well-known/acme" at which all
   compliant ACME servers will host their ACME directory object.  By
   retrieving instructions for the ACME client from the authorized
   CA(s), this mechanism allows for the domain owner to configure
   multiple CAs in either load-balanced or fallback prioritizations
   which improves user preferences and increases diversity in
   certificate issuers.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://vanbroup.github.io/acme-auto-discovery/draft-
   vanbrouwershaven-acme-auto-discovery.html.  Status information for
   this document may be found at https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-
   vanbrouwershaven-acme-auto-discovery/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the ACME Working Group
   mailing list (mailto:acme@ietf.org), which is archived at
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/acme/about/.  Subscribe at
   https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/acme/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/vanbroup/acme-auto-discovery.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 4 March 2024.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Conventions and Definitions
   2.  Introduction
   3.  Protocol Overview
   4.  CAA Record
     4.1.  Extensions to the CAA Record
       4.1.1.  The "discovery" Parameter
       4.1.2.  The "priority" Parameter
     4.2.  Examples
   5.  ACME Client Configuration
   6.  ACME Client Behavior
     6.1.  Certificates with multiple domain names
       6.1.1.  Selecting a CA through Compromise
   7.  Implementation Considerations
     7.1.  External Account Binding
       7.1.1.  Internal Account Binding using Domain Control
               Validation
       7.1.2.  Internal Account Binding using Email Address
     7.2.  Terms of Service and Acceptance
       7.2.1.  Implicit Acceptance of Terms of Service
       7.2.2.  Acceptance Through CAA Parameter
   8.  IANA Considerations
     8.1.  Well-Known URI for the ACME Directory
     8.2.  CAA Parameters
   9.  Security Considerations
     9.1.  Risks with Auto-Discovery of Authorized CAs
       9.1.1.  Unexpected Certificate Issuance
       9.1.2.  Issuance by the ‘wrong’ authorized CA
     9.2.  Malicious ACME Servers
     9.3.  ACME Keys
     9.4.  Use of DNS Security
   10. References
     10.1.  Normative References
     10.2.  Informative References
   Acknowledgments
   Authors' Addresses

1.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

2.  Introduction

   The ACME protocol [RFC8555] offers a powerful framework for
   automating the issuance and validation of certificates, eliminating
   the need for user intervention.  This capability has significantly
   streamlined the process of obtaining certificates for servers and
   infrastructure software.  However, in shared environments, where
   multiple entities coexist, users often face limitations in modifying
   ACME client configurations.  Consequently, they are forced to rely on
   manual certificate management systems or default Certificate
   Authorities (CAs) preconfigured for the shared environment.

   This document introduces a mechanism to address the aforementioned
   challenge by enabling the automatic discovery of ACME client
   configurations for relevant domain names within a shared environment.
   The solution leverages the DNS Certification Authority Authorization
   (CAA) Resource Record [RFC8659] to identify the authorized
   Certification Authorities capable of issuing certificates for a
   specific domain name or set of domain names.

   By leveraging the power of CAA records, this mechanism empowers users
   with enhanced control and flexibility.  Users can specify their
   preferences, choose from a broader range of certificate issuers, and
   even designate a backup Certification Authority.

   This approach facilitates a more diverse and adaptable certificate
   management process within shared and managed environments.  This
   document provides a detailed description of the proposed mechanism,
   along with its benefits and considerations.

   Additionally, it outlines the security aspects associated with the
   use of CAA records for ACME client configuration discovery.  Finally,
   this document presents IANA considerations and references relevant
   normative and informative documents.

   There is previous work in this area in [I-D.tweedale-acme-discovery]
   which attempts to solve a similar ACME discovery problem for private
   networks and private ACME CAs.

      *RFC Editor's Note:* Please remove this section prior to
      publication of a final version of this document.

      The authors of the document considered both SRV and URI DNS
      resource record types as an alternative to the proposed Well-Known
      URI, see also: https://github.com/vanbroup/acme-auto-discovery/
      issues/15

3.  Protocol Overview

   +-------------+                          +--------------------------+
   |             |                          |                          |
   |             |  1. DNS Lookup (CAA)     |       DNS Resolver       |
   | ACME Client +------------------------->+                          |
   |             |                          +------------+-------------+
   |             |<---------+                            |
   +----------+--+          |                            v
            ^ |             |               +--------------------------+
            | |             | DNS Response  | example.com CAA          |
            | |             +---------------+ Record:                  |
            | |                             |                          |
            | |     2. Select issuer (CA)   | example.com              |
            | |        based on priority    | CAA 0 issue "ca.example" |
            | |                             +--------------------------+
            | |
            | |                             +--------------------------+
            | |     3. Connect issuer (CA)  |                          |
            | +---------------------------->+  https://ca.example/     |
            |                               |        .well-known/acme  |
            |                               |                          |
            |                               +------------+-------------+
            |                                            | Redirect
            |                                            v or alias
            |                               +--------------------------+
            |     ACME Directory Object     |                          |
            +-------------------------------+ https://acme.ca.example/ |
                                            |                          |
                                            +--------------------------+

   1.  The ACME client initiates a DNS lookup to retrieve the CAA
       record(s) according to [RFC8659].

       1.  The DNS resolver responds with the CAA record for each
           domain, specifying the authorized CAs capable of issuing
           certificates, along with their priorities and other optional
           parameters.

   2.  The ACME client analyzes the valid CAA records for the domain,
       ignoring any it cannot process, and selects the CA with the
       highest priority.

   3.  The ACME client will download the ACME directory from the well-
       known location of the issuer-domain-name of the selected CA
       (https://[issuer-domain-name]/.well-known/acme)

   4.  If the directory object indicates that an External Account
       Binding is required, but this is not configured on the ACME
       client, the client will try to determine an alternative common CA
       in step 2.

       1.  If no alternative CA can be found, the process with end with
           a failure and the user SHOULD be notified.

   5.  The ACME client continues normal operation according to
       [RFC8555].

4.  CAA Record

4.1.  Extensions to the CAA Record

   This document defines the "discovery" and "priority" CAA parameters
   in the context of ACME auto discovery.

4.1.1.  The "discovery" Parameter

   The "discovery" parameter is used to control the auto-discovery
   functionality of the record in the context of this document.

   The value of this parameter, if specified, MUST be a lower-case
   Boolean, where "true" indicates that this record can be used for auto
   discovery, and "false" indicates that this record should not be used
   for auto discovery.

   When this parameter is not specified the client MUST assume that
   discovery is enabled.

4.1.2.  The "priority" Parameter

   The value of this parameter, if specified, MUST contain an integer
   greater than zero, where the value "1" represents the highest
   priority, and subsequent values like "2", "3", and so on, indicate
   progressively lower priorities.  Where records specify an equal
   priority, their usage SHOULD be randomized.

   In the case that this parameter is not specified, the entry will be
   considered to have a lower priority than all entries which specify
   any priority.

4.2.  Examples

   This section shows some examples of how CAA records can be configured
   in the context of ACME auto discovery.  CAA records are used to
   authorize Certification Authorities (CAs) to issue certificates for a
   specific domain name.

   A simple CAA record allows the issuance of certificates from a single
   designated CA.  In the following example, the CAA record for the
   domain "example.com" authorizes the CA "ca.example" to issue
   certificates.  However, it does not specify any backup CA.
   Consequently, if the authorized CA is unable to issue the requested
   certificate, the certificate issuance will fail.

   example.com CAA 0 issue "ca.example"

   By default, when multiple CAA records are present, the CAs are
   randomized to distribute the load.  However, some users may have
   preferences regarding the order in which CAs are attempted for
   certificate issuance.  To explicitly specify the order, the
   "priority" parameter can be used.

   In the next example, the domain "example.com" has two CAA records.
   The CAA record with "ca2.example" has a higher priority value of 1,
   indicating it should be attempted first.  The CAA record with
   "ca1.example" has a lower priority value of 2, indicating it should
   be attempted second.

   example.com CAA 0 issue "ca1.example; priority=2"
   example.com CAA 0 issue "ca2.example; priority=1"

   CAA records that do not explicitly specify a priority are
   automatically assigned the lowest priority.  In cases where multiple
   CAA records have the same priority, the usage will be randomized.

   Consider the following example, where the domain "example.com" has
   three CAA records.  The CAA record with "ca1.example" has no
   specified priority, and thus it is assigned the lowest priority.  The
   CAA records with "ca2.example" and "ca3.example" both have a priority
   of 1.  In this scenario, the ACME client will first attempt to obtain
   its configuration from either "ca2.example" or "ca3.example",
   selected at random.  If both of those fail, it will fall back to
   "ca1.example".  If all attempts fail, the certificate issuance will
   ultimately fail.

   example.com CAA 0 issue "ca1.example"
   example.com CAA 0 issue "ca2.example; priority=1"
   example.com CAA 0 issue "ca3.example; priority=1"

   Furthermore, it is possible to configure CAA records to indicate a
   preference for specific types of certificates.  In the following
   example, the domain "example.com" prefers Extended Validation (EV)
   certificates issued by "ca1.example".  If the issuance of an EV
   certificate fails, the ACME client will attempt to obtain any type of
   certificate from "ca1.example".  If that also fails, it will then try
   to obtain any type of certificate from "ca2.example".

   example.com CAA 0 issue "ca1.example; priority=1 validationmethods=ca-ev"
   example.com CAA 0 issue "ca1.example; priority=2"
   example.com CAA 0 issue "ca2.example; priority=3"

   When an ACME client requests the issuance of a wildcard certificate,
   the issuewild CAA property takes precedence over each issue property
   when specified, see also section 4.3 of [RFC8659].  The following
   example specifies that only ca3.example can issue certificates for
   "_.example.com" or "_.sub.example.com".  However ca3.example is not
   permitted to issue for "example.com" or "sub.example.com".  In the
   case the issuewild property was not specified all listed CAs would be
   authorized to issue wildcards for this domain.

   example.com CAA 0 issue "ca1.example; priority=1"
   example.com CAA 0 issue "ca2.example; priority=2"
   example.com CAA 0 issuewild "ca3.example; priority=3"

   To disable auto discovery for a particular record users can set the
   discovery parameter to false, in the example below this will ensure
   that the ACME client will only try to obtain a certificate from
   ca1.example and ignore ca2.example.

   example.com CAA 0 issue "ca1.example"
   example.com CAA 0 issue "ca2.example; discovery=false"

   Implementers and operators should carefully configure CAA records
   according to their specific requirements and considerations.

5.  ACME Client Configuration

   To enable the ACME client to obtain the necessary configuration
   information for interacting with the authorized Certification
   Authority (CA)'s ACME server, a mechanism leveraging the well-known
   directory is proposed.

   The well-known directory is a standardized location within the
   domain's web server where clients can discover specific resources or
   configurations.  In the context of ACME client configuration
   retrieval, a copy of the ACME directory object or a redirect to it is
   placed in the well-known directory of the CA's domain, which is
   specified as a constraint in the CAA record.  This allows the ACME
   client to conveniently retrieve the required configuration.

   For instance, when the CAA record restricts certificate issuance to
   the CA "ca.example" for the domain "example.com", the ACME client
   retrieves the ACME directory object as specified in Section 7.1.1 of
   ACME [RFC8555] from the URL "https://ca.example/.well-known/acme".

   While an alternative consideration was to include the ACME server
   address directly as a parameter in the CAA record, it was determined
   that this approach could introduce clutter and significantly increase
   the size of the record.  Additionally, a rigid binding between the
   CAA record and the ACME server address may present challenges if the
   CA needs to change its server address in the future.

   Thus, the approach outlined in this document, utilizing the well-
   known directory for ACME client configuration retrieval, offers
   flexibility for CAs to manage and update their ACME server addresses
   while maintaining a concise and focused CAA record.

   It is important for implementers and operators to ensure the
   availability and accessibility of the ACME directory object within
   the well-known directory to facilitate successful ACME client
   configuration retrieval.

6.  ACME Client Behavior

   Prior to establishing a connection with the default ACME server or a
   pool of ACME servers, the ACME client verifies the presence of any
   configured CA Authorization records (CAA) as defined in [RFC8659].
   If a CAA record is found, the ACME client will attempt to obtain a
   certificate from the CA with the highest priority.  If the
   certificate issuance attempt fails, the client will proceed to lower-
   priority CAs in an attempt to obtain the certificate.

   In the event of a failed attempt to obtain a certificate from a
   particular CA, the ACME client employs a retry mechanism to ensure
   successful certificate acquisition.  However, in cases where certain
   CAs are known to be temporarily unavailable, the ACME client MAY
   choose to ignore those CAs for a limited period of time.  By
   temporarily excluding unresponsive CAs from the issuance process, the
   client can optimize its certificate acquisition strategy and enhance
   overall efficiency.  This approach helps mitigate potential delays
   caused by unresponsive CAs and allows the client to focus on viable
   options for obtaining the required certificate.

   ACME clients SHOULD notify the user if the enrollment of a
   certificate from a specific CA fails multiple times, even if the
   client successfully obtains a certificate from an alternative CA.
   This notification is essential to ensure that users are promptly
   informed about recurring enrollment failures, allowing them to take
   appropriate measures.  By providing such notifications, clients
   enable users to assess and address any underlying issues, seek
   alternative solutions, or make informed decisions regarding their
   certificate management processes.

   In order to promote the adoption of ACME in Enterprise environments,
   it is crucial for implementers and operators to recognize the
   significance of External Account Bindings.  The section dedicated to
   External Account Bindings provides valuable information and
   guidelines for effectively incorporating this feature.

6.1.  Certificates with multiple domain names

   When the ACME client initiates a certificate request for multiple
   domain names, it is required to check the CAA records for each
   domain.  The purpose of this check is to identify a Certification
   Authority (CA) that is authorized by all the domain names intended to
   be included in the certificate.  If, during the evaluation of CAA
   records, no common CA can be identified that satisfies the
   authorization requirements of all the domain names, the certificate
   issuance process will fail.

   To mitigate the risk of encountering failures in the certificate
   issuance process due to incompatible CAA records, it is crucial to
   ensure that certificates only include domain names that are under the
   control of the same entity.  By maintaining a consistent ownership
   and control of the domain names included in a certificate, the
   likelihood of encountering authorization conflicts among CAA records
   is minimized.  This practice promotes a more streamlined and reliable
   certificate issuance process, reducing the potential for errors and
   ensuring that the certificate accurately represents the domains
   controlled by a single entity.

   The process with multiple domain names looks as follows:

   1.  The ACME client identifies the list of domain names for which a
       certificate is requested.

   2.  For each domain in the list, the ACME client initiates a DNS
       lookup to retrieve the CAA record(s) according to [RFC8659].

       1.  The DNS resolver responds with the CAA record for each
           domain, specifying the authorized CAs capable of issuing
           certificates, along with their priorities and other optional
           parameters.

   3.  The ACME client analyzes the valid CAA records for each domain to
       identify a CA that is authorized by all included domains and
       which has the highest priority while it ignores any CAA records
       it cannot process.

       1.  If all domains prioritize the same CA, the ACME client
           proceeds with step 4.

       2.  If not all domains prioritize the same CA, the ACME client
           tries to find a compromise based on the highest overall
           preference.

       3.  If no compromise can be found, the process will end with a
           failure and the user SHOULD be notified.

   4.  The ACME client will download the ACME directory from the well-
       known location of the issuer-domain-name of the selected CA
       (https://[issuer-domain-name]/.well-known/acme)

   5.  If an External Account Binding is required but not configured the
       ACME client will try to determine an alternative CA in step 3.

       1.  If no alternative CA can be found, the process with end with
           a failure and the user SHOULD be notified.

   6.  The ACME clients continues normal operation according to
       [RFC8555].

6.1.1.  Selecting a CA through Compromise

   In the example below, we have three domains: "one.example",
   "two.example", and "three.example".  Among these domains,
   "one.example" and "three.example" prioritize "ca1.example", while
   "two.example" prioritizes "ca2.example" over "ca1.example".  To
   select a Certification Authority (CA), a compromise on the priority
   needs to be established.

   Based on the priorities specified, "ca1.example" is preferred by two
   out of the three domains.  Since "ca1.example" is authorized by all
   domains and has the highest overall preference, it is selected as the
   CA to continue the process.

   one.example CAA 0 issue "ca1.example; priority=1"
   one.example CAA 0 issue "ca2.example; priority=2"

   two.example CAA 0 issue "ca1.example; priority=2"
   two.example CAA 0 issue "ca2.example; priority=1"

   three.example CAA 0 issue "ca1.example; priority=1"
   three.example CAA 0 issue "ca2.example; priority=2"

7.  Implementation Considerations

7.1.  External Account Binding

   Clients SHOULD provide users with the ability to configure and
   utilize external account bindings per CA or ACME server, as it offers
   enhanced security and flexibility in managing the certificate
   provisioning process.

   External account bindings are not only crucial for users seeking to
   provision certificates with stronger authentication requirements such
   as Organization Validated (OV), Extended Validation (EV), and
   Qualified Website Authentication Certificates (QWAC), but they can
   also be applicable to Domain Validation (DV) certificates covered by
   a commercial agreement.  By offering the configuration option for
   external account bindings, clients enable users to establish a secure
   association between their ACME accounts and external accounts,
   facilitating streamlined and authenticated certificate issuance
   processes.  This flexibility accommodates a wide range of certificate
   types and use cases, ensuring that users can provision certificates
   with the appropriate level of authentication based on their specific
   requirements, whether they be DV certificates covered by a commercial
   agreement or certificates with higher levels of validation.
   Therefore, it is essential for clients to implement the external
   account binding configuration option to support the diverse needs of
   users in obtaining certificates with varying authentication levels.

   It is crucial for Certification Authorities (CAs) to carefully
   consider the internal account binding mechanisms described in this
   document.  This is especially critical given the current lack of
   widespread support for external account bindings in user interfaces,
   with only a few command line utilities offering such functionality.
   By recognizing and implementing the internal account binding
   approach, CAs can provide a viable alternative for users who may not
   have access to or be familiar with external account binding options.
   This will help ensure a seamless and secure account linkage process,
   even in situations where the availability of external account binding
   configurations is limited.

7.1.1.  Internal Account Binding using Domain Control Validation

   In addition to the external account binding mechanism, an alternative
   approach can be implemented by the CAs that offers distinct
   advantages, particularly in cases where service providers may not
   expose the account binding configuration options to their users.
   This alternative method leverages domain control validation as the
   initial step in the process and subsequently pauses to await
   confirmation from the account holder regarding the account binding.
   The email address associated with the ACME account can be utilized
   for differentiating between multiple Certification Authority (CA)
   accounts holding the same domain name.

   The process to establish an internal account binding would be as
   follows:

   1.  The user adds the domain name to their Certification Authority
       (CA) account and completes the domain control verification
       process within this account.

   2.  The user initiates the ACME process for certificate issuance or a
       new authorization.

   3.  The ACME client validates domain control for the requested
       domain.

   4.  Upon successful domain control validation the CA does not mark
       the authorizations as completed but awaits the completion of the
       account binding.

   5.  The CA, having confirmed domain control, uses the provided email
       address associated with the ACME account to distinguish between
       different CA accounts that have confirmed control over the same
       domain name.

   6.  The account holder receives a notification or prompt and confirms
       the account binding within the CA's system.

   7.  Once the account binding is confirmed, the CA marks the ACME
       authorization as completed and the ACME client proceeds with the
       remaining steps of the ACME process, such as finalizing the
       certificate issuance.

   It is important to note that before the ACME process can start, the
   domain name must be added to the CA account and the domain control
   validation process must be successfully completed.  This ensures that
   the domain ownership is verified for both accounts before proceeding
   with the account binding.

7.1.2.  Internal Account Binding using Email Address

   When ACME clients provide the email address associated with the
   user's account during the creation of a new account, Certification
   Authorities (CAs) can utilize this email address to establish an
   internal account binding between the ACME account and the
   corresponding customer account within their internal systems.  This
   approach offers an alternative method for establishing the account
   linkage, particularly in cases where the ACME integration's user
   interface does not provide explicit external account binding
   configuration options.

   However, it is crucial to acknowledge that this internal account
   binding mechanism introduces potential vulnerabilities, particularly
   in relation to phishing attacks.  It is imperative to exercise
   caution when utilizing this mechanism since the email address
   associated with the ACME account is not verified, and the account
   binding request can be initiated by any party.  Careful consideration
   should be given to the security implications of relying solely on the
   email address for establishing the account linkage.

7.2.  Terms of Service and Acceptance

   The terms of service associated with different CAs can vary, and it
   is important to consider how these terms are handled within the
   context of auto-discovery.

7.2.1.  Implicit Acceptance of Terms of Service

   As the ACME client is not explicitly controlled by the user in a
   shared environment, the user's explicit approval of the terms of
   service presented by the CA becomes challenging.  In the absence of a
   direct user interaction with the ACME client, it is assumed that the
   user accepts the terms of service by explicitly configuring the CAA
   record to authorize the CA.

   CAs will typically provide documentation indicating how to configure
   a domain's CAA record for ACME auto-discovery and are encouraged to
   note in alongside those instructions that doing so will be taken as
   implicit agreement to the Terms of Service, and also to include a
   direct link to those Terms of Service.

   ACME clients are strongly encouraged to display the relevant terms of
   service for the obtained certificates to ensure users have visibility
   into the associated obligations and restrictions.  This helps users
   make informed decisions about their certificate management and
   ensures compliance with the terms of service set by the authorized
   CA.

7.2.2.  Acceptance Through CAA Parameter

   One potential enhancement to address the explicit acceptance of terms
   of service is the inclusion of a CAA parameter called
   "termsOfServiceAgreed".  This parameter would provide a direct
   mechanism for users to indicate their agreement to the terms of
   service.

   However, it is important to consider the trade-offs associated with
   adding this type of data to the CAA record.  The inclusion of
   additional attributes can be perceived as clutter and may increase
   the complexity of configuring the CAA record.  Therefore, the authors
   of this document recommend relying on the implicit acceptance of the
   terms of service.

   By configuring the CAA record to authorize a specific CA, users
   implicitly indicate their acceptance of the associated terms of
   service.  This approach strikes a balance between simplicity and
   compliance with the CA's requirements.  It is crucial for ACME
   clients to display the relevant terms of service for the obtained
   certificates, ensuring that users have visibility and can make
   informed decisions regarding their certificate management.

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  Well-Known URI for the ACME Directory

   The following value has been registered in the "Well-Known URIs"
   registry (using the template from [RFC5785]):

   URI suffix: acme
   Change controller: IETF
   Specification document(s): RFC XXXX, Section Y.Z
   Related information: N/A

      *RFC Editor's Note:* Please replace XXXX above with the RFC number
      assigned to this document

8.2.  CAA Parameters

   As per [RFC8659], the parameter namespace for the CAA "issue" and
   "issuewild" Properties has CA-defined semantics, and the identifiers
   within that namespace may be freely and arbitrarily assigned by a CA.
   This document merely specifies recommended semantics for parameters
   of the names "discovery" and "priority", which CAs may choose to
   adopt.

      *RFC Editor's Note:* Please remove this section prior to
      publication of a final version of this document.

      Although there is no requirement for a RFC 8659-compliant CA to
      process parameters, having a list of parameters whose recommended
      semantics have been defined would likely be useful.  Therefor the
      authors of this document have the intention to establishing a CAA
      parameter registry in another document.

      See also: https://github.com/vanbroup/acme-auto-discovery/
      issues/14

9.  Security Considerations

9.1.  Risks with Auto-Discovery of Authorized CAs

   The mechanism described in this document relies on the DNS
   Certification Authority Authorization (CAA) Resource Record [RFC8659]
   to determine the authorized Certification Authorities (CAs) capable
   of issuing certificates for a given domain name(s).  However, there
   are potential risks associated with the automatic provisioning of
   certificates without an explicit indication from the user.

9.1.1.  Unexpected Certificate Issuance

   Where the issuance of certificates is currently restricted through
   CAA records and certificates are provisioned through alternative
   means (i.e., manual or via a proprietary API) certificates can
   unexpectedly be replaced with a similar certificate or a certificate
   of a different type (e.g., DV versus EV) if the ACME client supports
   this new mechanism.

   Its recommended that users who which to obtain certificates attesting
   to more than domain validation (DV) control, restrict the validation
   method using a CA specific “validationmethods” CAA parameter value
   (e.g., “ca-ov”, “ca-ev”, “ca-qwac”) as specified by [RFC8657].

9.1.2.  Issuance by the ‘wrong’ authorized CA

   In scenarios where a domain name authorizes multiple CAs without
   specifying a weight or preference attribute, there is a risk that the
   ACME client may unexpectedly request a certificate from one of the
   authorized CAs that was only included as backup.  To mitigate this
   risk, it is recommended that users who have multiple CAA records
   explicitly configure the CAA record to include a weight or preference
   attribute to indicate their desired CA for certificate issuance.

   Additionally, ACME clients should provide clear visibility and
   feedback to users regarding the CA from which certificates will be
   obtained, ensuring that it aligns with their expectations.

9.2.  Malicious ACME Servers

   One potential security risk associated with the mechanism defined in
   this document is the possibility of domain owners placing links to
   malicious ACME servers into their DNS CAA Resource Records in order
   to attack the infrastructure of hosting providers.  Malicious actors
   could exploit vulnerabilities in the ACME client implementation or
   inject malicious code, potentially leading to unauthorized access or
   remote code execution on the client's system.

   To minimize this risk, ACME clients must be written with a cautious
   and security-conscious approach when interacting with ACME servers.
   It is crucial not to blindly trust servers to behave securely and in
   accordance with the ACME protocol.

9.3.  ACME Keys

   To ensure a secure account binding per customer, it is essential that
   each customer possesses their own unique ACME key.  The utilization
   of individual ACME keys allows for a distinct association between the
   customer's account and the established account binding.

   If an account binding were to be established based on a shared ACME
   key, it could potentially lead to unauthorized users obtaining
   certificates using the same Certificate Authority (CA) based on the
   established account binding.  This scenario poses a significant
   security risk and could result in the compromise of sensitive
   information or unauthorized certificate issuance.

   To mitigate this risk, it is crucial to enforce the use of individual
   ACME keys for each customer.  This ensures that the account binding
   is securely linked to the respective customer's account, preventing
   unauthorized access or misuse by other users.  By maintaining
   separate ACME keys per customer, the integrity and confidentiality of
   the account binding process are upheld, enhancing the overall
   security posture of the system.

9.4.  Use of DNS Security

   The use of DNSSEC to authenticate CAA RRs is strongly RECOMMENDED but
   not required.  In scenarios where DNSSEC is not utilized, there is a
   potential risk wherein the ACME client may be compelled to request a
   certificate from an alternative ACME server, which could be malicious
   in nature.

   In the context of the public PKI, a compliant CA associated with the
   ACME server will deny such unauthorized requests if it was not
   delegated the authority through a CAA record.  However, for ACME
   servers that operate outside the scope of public trust and may have
   malicious intentions, the ACME client can validate certificates
   against it local root store, thus identifying and mitigating this
   potential attack.

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

   [RFC8555]  Barnes, R., Hoffman-Andrews, J., McCarney, D., and J.
              Kasten, "Automatic Certificate Management Environment
              (ACME)", RFC 8555, DOI 10.17487/RFC8555, March 2019,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8555>.

   [RFC8659]  Hallam-Baker, P., Stradling, R., and J. Hoffman-Andrews,
              "DNS Certification Authority Authorization (CAA) Resource
              Record", RFC 8659, DOI 10.17487/RFC8659, November 2019,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8659>.

10.2.  Informative References

   [I-D.tweedale-acme-discovery]
              Tweedale, F., "Automated Certificate Management
              Environment (ACME) Service Discovery", Work in Progress,
              Internet-Draft, draft-tweedale-acme-discovery-01, 16
              November 2020, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/
              draft-tweedale-acme-discovery-01>.

   [RFC5785]  Nottingham, M. and E. Hammer-Lahav, "Defining Well-Known
              Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs)", RFC 5785,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC5785, April 2010,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5785>.

   [RFC8657]  Landau, H., "Certification Authority Authorization (CAA)
              Record Extensions for Account URI and Automatic
              Certificate Management Environment (ACME) Method Binding",
              RFC 8657, DOI 10.17487/RFC8657, November 2019,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8657>.

Acknowledgments

   TODO acknowledge.

Authors' Addresses

   Paul van Brouwershaven
   Entrust Limited
   2500 Solandt Road – Suite 100
   Ottawa, Ontario  K2K 3G5
   Canada
   Email: paul.vanbrouwershaven@entrust.com


   Mike Ounsworth
   Entrust Limited
   2500 Solandt Road – Suite 100
   Ottawa, Ontario  K2K 3G5
   Canada
   Email: mike.ounsworth@entrust.com
